Breast screening special appointments design history post (#184)
NHSDigital/prevention-services-design-history: app/posts/manage-breast-screening/2025/07/2025-07-21-providing-details-for-special-appointments.md

### There's nowhere to record details of reasonable adjustments

After selecting the relevant reason(s) in NBSS, there is no dedicated field where details of requirements can be added.

The client record and the appointment both have separate ‘General comments’ fields, but these aren't dedicated to this purpose and may contain other information. There’s inconsistency across breast screening units (BSUs) in which method is used to log special appointment information.

## Creating a solution 

Special appointment information could theoretically be reported in a pre-appointment questionnaire, or merged from patient information held elsewhere in the NHS. But for our initial designs, we’re focusing on the manual addition of special appointment details at any time before, during or after an appointment. 

This covers scenarios such as a participant calling a clinic in advance to share information (such as severe anxiety, or a broken arm), or a reason being uncovered by the radiographer while chatting to the participant in the mammography room. 

### Entering the workflow

> A lot of work has been done to remove clutter from the appointment page so users could focus on the most important information at the stage (being able to ID the participant). To keep things clean, we’ve grouped the option to make an appointment ‘special’ with a selection of other sporadically used options within an action button. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A lot of work has been done to remove clutter from the appointment page so users could focus on the most important information at the stage (being able to ID the participant). To keep things clean, we’ve grouped the option to make an appointment ‘special’ with a selection of other appointment related actions within an action button. 
```
